<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="best-practice" xml:lang="en">
  <title>Best-Practice Based</title>

  <shortdesc>The IHTSDO Workbench Toolkit constitutes a powerful and flexible
  environment for building, packaging and deploying tools for the production
  and management of clinical terminologies and classifications.</shortdesc>

  <body>
    <section><title>Develop Iteratively</title> Given today's sophisticated
    systems, it is not possible to sequentially first define the entire
    problem, design the entire solution, build the software and then test the
    product at the end. An iterative approach is required that allows an
    increasing understanding of the problem through successive refinements,
    and to incrementally grow an effective solution over multiple iterations.
    <p>The IHTSDO Workbench supports an iterative approach to development that
    allows developers to address the highest risk items at every stage in the
    lifecycle, significantly reducing a project's risk profile. This iterative
    approach helps attack risk through demonstrable progress—frequent,
    executable releases that enable continuous end-user involvement and
    feedback. Because each iteration ends with an executable release, the
    development team stays focused on producing results, and frequent status
    checks help ensure that the project stays on schedule. An iterative
    approach also makes it easier to accommodate tactical changes in
    requirements, features or schedule.</p></section>

    <section><title>Manage Requirements</title> The IHTSDO Workbench provides
    the necessary tools to elicit, organize, and document required
    functionality and constraints, track and document tradeoffs and decisions,
    and easily capture and communicate business requirements.</section>

    <section><title>Use Component-Based Architectures</title> The IHTSDO
    Workbench provides a framework that enables early development and
    baselining of a robust terminology architecture, prior to committing
    resources for full-scale development. It describes how to design a
    resilient architecture that is flexible, accommodates change, is
    intuitively understandable, and promotes more effective reuse.</section>

    <section><title>Verify Quality</title>The IHTSDO Workbench allows
    terminology developers to build quality assessment into the process, in
    all activities, involving all participants, using objective measurements
    and criteria, without being treated as an afterthought or a separate
    activity performed by a separate group.</section>

    <section><title>Control Changes</title>The IHTSDO Workbench allows users
    to manage change--making certain that each change is acceptable, and being
    able to track those changes. The IHTSDO Workbench provides the ability to
    control, track and monitor changes to enable successful iterative
    development. The IHTSDO Workbench also makes it simple to establish secure
    workspaces for each developer by providing isolation from changes made in
    other workspaces and by controlling changes of all artifacts (e.g.,
    models, code, documents, etc.). And it brings a team together to work as a
    single unit by providing automated integration and build
    management.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
