<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic1a" xml:lang="en">
 <title>Reference Set Forms and Types</title>
 <prolog>
  <author>Eric Browne</author>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Reference Sets <indexterm>see refsets</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>refsets<indexterm>forms of</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <body>
  <section id="rs_struct"> If we represent, say <i>viral pneumonia</i> and its definitional
   relationships as SNOMED concepts in the Workbench IDE, then the Workbench does not actually have
   to create or process real world instances of <i>viral pneumonia</i> - they simply exist in the
   real world, unfortunately, for patients. However, when we wish to create and manage refsets, not
   only do we need to place the concepts into our taxonomy, but we need to construct the physical
   infrastructure to house and process the refset contents and specification. Thus the word <i
    >refset</i> can refer both to a concept that occupies a place in a concept hierarchy, as well as
   a physical structure used to house the concepts that comprise the refset. This means that unlike
   most concepts that are represented and manipulated within the IHTSDO Workbench, which are
   represented fully by concepts, descriptions, and relationships, the Workbench as been extended to
   house and manipulate the additional structures and information necessary to represent and process
   reference sets. </section>
  
  <section id="rs_forms"><title>Refset Forms</title>
   In the IHTSDO Workbench, refset structures can
   appear in two forms, namely <b>member refsets</b> and <b>specification refsets</b>. <b
    >Specification refsets</b> are created by refset developers, who either directly or indirectly,
   identify which concepts in the existing hierarchy are to be included in (or excluded from) the
   refset being defined. Using the IHTSDO query language, users may include or exclude individual
   concepts or whole branches of the concept hierarchy. (See <xref
    href="RefSets_query_language.dita" type="topic" format="dita"/> for a detailed explanation of
   the components available to build specification expressions). Thus, a <b>specification refset</b>
   represent instructions to be processed by an expression processor in the Workbench to generate
   and populate the contents of an existing <b>member refset</b>. In most cases it will be <b>member
    refsets</b> that will be distributed by terminology release centres for use in clinical systems.
   Please refer to the IHTSDO Reference Set Specification for further details of the table formats,
   elements and datatypes used to represent refsets.</section>
  
  <section><title>Refset Instances</title>
   For each member refset, the Workbench IDE also
   automatically generates the list of parents and ancestors of the members of the refset and stores
   these in a separate, but associated <b>marked parent refset</b>. Thus, for each distributed
   refset as known by end users, the Workbench IDE manages a total of three refsets, whose
   associations are managed by the taxonomy relationships, namely <codeph><b>is a</b></codeph> ,
    <codeph><b>specifies refset</b></codeph> , <codeph><b>marked parent is-a type</b></codeph> , and
    <codeph><b>marked parent refset</b></codeph>.</section>
 </body>
</topic>
