<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic1" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Reference Sets</title>

  <prolog>
    <author>Eric Browne</author>

    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>reference sets</indexterm>

        <indexterm>subsets<index-see-also>refsets</index-see-also></indexterm>

        <indexterm>refsets</indexterm>

        <!--    <indexterm>refsets<index-see-also>reference sets</index-see-also></indexterm>-->
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <body>
    <section>Reference sets, or <i>Refsets</i> as they are more commonly
    known, are formal representations for identifying subsets of a terminology
    for specific purposes, and which conform to the IHTSDO's reference set
    specifications. Uses can include language specific termsets, value sets
    for constraining data element values, mappings between two terminologies,
    navigation support for data entry, and many other potential applications.
    A <ph>refset</ph> is a set of concepts, descriptions, or relationships
    that are appropriate to a particular language, dialect, country,
    specialty, organization, user or context. In its simplest form, a refset
    is a list of Universally Unique Identifiers (UUIDs), where each UUID
    refers to one component of the terminology hierarchy, and makes it a
    member of the refset (a refset member).</section>

    <section id="refsets"><title>SNOMED CT Refsets</title><p>During 2008 and
    2009 IHTSDO evolved their Refset specification and aligned it with the
    SNOMED Release Format version 2. The Refset Specification is designed to
    replace the earlier <xref format="dita" href="#topic1/subsets"/>
    specification developed by the College of American
    Pathologists.</p></section>

    <section id="subsets"><title>SNOMED CT Subsets</title><p>The original
    SNOMED CT Subset specification has been deemed inadequate to support the
    current and future requirements of IHTSDO and its affiliates. It will be
    deprecated over time. </p> <note>Whilst the IHTSDO Workbench IDE provides
    for the creation and management of Refsets, it now also supports the
    ability to import legacy SNOMED CT Subsets for conversion to Refsets. It
    is also possible to export Subsets using the Maven build tool, as
    described in <xref href="Subsets_export-maven.dita#subset_export-maven"
    id="S"/> </note></section>
  </body>
</topic>
