<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="tk_versioning" xml:lang="en">
  <title>IDE Version Control Best Practices</title>

  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>version control</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <body>
    <section>The IHTSDO Workbench IDE Framework is specifically designed to
    enable projects to implement industry best practices for version control
    within a smart client application. It aims to follow in the footsteps of
    software IDEs—such as Eclipse—that also enable projects to implement these
    industry best practices.</section>

    <section>The IHTSDO Workbench IDEs are where clinical terminologists edit
    terminology, create mapping between terminology systems, translate
    descriptions, generate reference sets, classify the descriptions logic,
    and visualize, test, and debug what they or others have built.</section>

    <section>The IHTSDO Workbench IDEs correspond to the notion of
    configuration managed workspaces or “sandboxes.” The IDEs allow the
    clinical terminologist to check out version-controlled components from a
    central repository (Subversion), and then record all the changes to those
    components with the intent of subsequently checking those changes back
    into the central repository.</section>

    <section>The best practices for managing these IDE workspaces include
    (Wingerd &amp; Seiwald):</section>

    <ul>
      <li>Don't share workspaces. A workspace should have a single purpose,
      such as an edit/build/test area for a single clinical terminologist, or
      a build/test/release area for a product release. Sharing workspaces
      confuses people, just as sharing a desk does. Furthermore, sharing
      workspaces compromises the systems ability to track activity by user or
      task.</li>

      <li>Don't work outside of managed workspaces. Each instance of an IHTSDO
      Workbench IDE is a loosely coupled managed workspace. Each IDE will
      generate change sets for all activity by default. These change sets can
      be coordinated in a transport independent and ad-hoc manner, or can be
      pre-coordinated on a project basis through use of managed accounts on a
      Subversion server. This flexibility allows for spontaneous collaboration
      without imposing a rigid structure on activities where such structure is
      not necessary or appropriate, while also allowing for strict project
      control when a more structured approach is desired.</li>

      <li>Don't use jello views. Data in the IDE workspace does not change
      unless the clinical terminologist explicitly causes the change. A "jello
      view" is a workspace where data changes are caused by external events
      beyond the terminologist’s control. A typical example of a jello view is
      a workspace built upon a shared database where many users concurrently
      edit the same content. Jello views are a source of chaos in development.
      IHTSDO Workbench IDEs give the terminologists control over when their
      data changes.</li>

      <li>Stay in sync with the baseline. The quality of a terminologists work
      depends on how well it meshes with other peoples' work. As changes are
      checked into the baseline, terminologists should update their workspace
      and integrate those changes. The IHTSDO Workbench IDE makes this
      workspace update operation straightforward and unencumbered with tricky
      or time-consuming procedures. Business processes that are configured by
      the IHTSDO Workbench IDE developer coordinate this update process.</li>

      <li>Check in often. Integrating development work requires terminologists
      to check in their changes as soon as they are ready. The IHTSDO
      Workbench IDE allows configuration of startup processes, shutdown
      processes, and on demand processes, that encourage frequent
      check-ins.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
