<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">


<topic id="topic1a" xml:lang="en">
 <title>Bundle structure</title>
 <body>
   <section id="aw1047568">Each Maven project has its own POM and each Maven project typically has
   one primary output. The rest of this section describes the Maven projects typically used to
   generate an IHTSDO Workbench application bundle build.<indexterm>Maven </indexterm><indexterm>POM
    </indexterm><indexterm>Maven </indexterm><indexterm>Maven </indexterm></section>
  <section id="aw1047587">Each Maven project for the editing application bundle build follows
   Maven’s recommended directory structure, naming conventions for the directory structure and the
   naming conventions for the primary output of the project. Some of the key projects used to define
   an editing application bundle project are:<indexterm>Maven </indexterm><indexterm>Maven
   </indexterm></section>
  <section id="aw1047605">
   <title>IHTSDO Workbench-api project</title>
  </section>
  <section id="aw1047618">The IHTSDO Workbench API project contains the large set of classes that
   embody most of the IHTSDO Workbench Editor functionality that might need to be referenced by
   those developers intending to extend or enhance the editor. Source code is not open source.
   Contact Informatics Inc. for details. Target code is packaged under Maven as
    <codeph>ace-api-</codeph><codeph>VERSION</codeph><codeph>.jar</codeph><indexterm>Maven </indexterm><indexterm>ace-api
   </indexterm></section>
  <section id="aw1047637">
   <title>foundation project<ph>
     <indexterm>foundation java components <indexterm>Maven project</indexterm>
     </indexterm>
     <indexterm>Maven project <indexterm>foundation</indexterm>
     </indexterm>
    </ph></title>
  </section>
  <section id="aw1047650">The foundation project contains utility classes that are general in nature
   and shared by all the project modules. Source code is distributed under the Apache 2 open source
   licence and is managed via the collabnet subversion repository at <xref
    href="https://dwfa.aceworkspace.net/" scope="external" format="html">
    <ph>https://dwfa.aceworkspace.net/</ph>
   </xref>. Source code has been contributed by Informatics Inc. Target code is packaged under
   Maven as <codeph>foundation-</codeph><codeph>VERSION</codeph><codeph>.jar</codeph><indexterm>subversion
    </indexterm><indexterm>Maven </indexterm></section>
  <section id="aw1047672">
   <title>core project<ph>
     <indexterm>core DWFA components <indexterm>project Maven project
       <indexterm>core</indexterm></indexterm>
     </indexterm>
    </ph></title>
  </section>
  <section id="aw1047685">This project contains the majority of basic business logic classes that
   control the distributed workflow capability, including business process control and scheduling
   and queuing classes. Source code is distributed under the Apache 2 open source licence and is
   managed via the collabnet subversion repository at <xref href="https://dwfa.aceworkspace.net/"
    scope="external" format="html">
    <ph>https://dwfa.aceworkspace.net/</ph>
   </xref>. Source code has been contributed by Informatics Inc. Target code is packaged under
   Maven as <codeph>core-</codeph><codeph>VERSION</codeph><codeph>.jar</codeph>.<indexterm>subversion
    </indexterm><indexterm>Maven </indexterm></section>
  <section id="aw1047708">
   <title>vodb project<ph>
     <indexterm>vodb java components <indexterm>project</indexterm>
     </indexterm>
     <indexterm>Maven proect <indexterm>vodb</indexterm>
     </indexterm>
    </ph></title>
  </section>
  <section id="aw1047721">The Versioned Object Database (VODB) project uses the java Berkeley DB<fn
    id="aw1057383">Goals are what are executed to perform an action on the project. For example, the
    jar:jar will compile the current project and produce a JAR. Each goal exists in a plugin, and
    the goal name typically reflects the plugin (e.g. java:comple comes from the java
    plugin).</fn><xref href="#topic1a/aw1057383" scope="local" type="fn" format="dita"/> framework
   and engine developed by Sleepycat Software, and now managed by Oracle.<indexterm>VODB
    </indexterm><indexterm>BerkeleyDB </indexterm><indexterm>Berkeley DB
    </indexterm><indexterm>Maven goals </indexterm></section>
  <section id="aw1047786">
   <title>term-mojo project<ph>
     <indexterm>term-mojo <indexterm>Maven project</indexterm>
     </indexterm>
     <indexterm>Maven project <indexterm>vodb</indexterm>
     </indexterm>
    </ph></title>
  </section>
  <section id="aw1047799">This project manages building Maven plugins that, in turn, are used to
   transform terminology data in preparation for importing into standard file formats used by the
   IHTSDO Workbench version-orented database, and by other applications.<indexterm>Maven
   </indexterm></section>
 </body>
</topic>

