<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic1" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Reference Sets</title>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Reference Sets </indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <body>
  <section>A <ph>refset</ph> is a set of concepts, descriptions, or relationships that are
   appropriate to a particular language, dialect, country, specialty, organization, user or context.
   In its simplest form, a refset is a list of Universally Unique Identifiers (UUIDs). Each UUID
   refers to one component of the hierarchy, and makes it a member of the refset (a refset
   member).</section>
  <section id="ak1006794">In IHTSDO IDE, there are two types of refsets: Specification refsets are
   created by users, who explicitly define which concepts in the hierarchy are to be included in (or
   excluded from) the refset being defined. Using Inclusion Types, users may include or exclude
   individual concepts or whole branches of the concept hierarchy. (See <xref
    href="RefSets_inclusion_types.dita#topic9" type="topic" format="dita"/> for a detailed
   explanation of how inclusion types work.) These Specification refsets are processed by software
   algorithms in IHTSDO Workbench to generate Member refsets, whose members contain all the concepts
   specified for inclusion in their corresponding Specification refset.<indexterm>Inclusion Types
    </indexterm><indexterm>Member refsets </indexterm><indexterm>refset <indexterm
     >member</indexterm>
   </indexterm></section>
  <section>The following sections illustrate how to create a refset grouping containing
   concepts.</section>
  <table id="ak1006889">
   <tgroup cols="1">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="324*"/>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">
       <note>Before creating any reference sets, IHTSDO IDE must be properly configured. See<xref
         href="../Preferences/Prefs_intro.dita" type="topic" format="dita"/>.</note>
      </entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
 </body>
</topic>
