<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="exporting_rf2">
  <title>Exporting in RF2 format</title>

  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a member set in the cfh_refset_bundle and commit to SVN.
        e.g. To create the "Activities of daily living" member set, load the
        refset into the refset spec panel, and press the compute button. Wait
        for the computation to finish. Close bundle. Change into the
        <codeph>target/cfh-subset-sa- bundle.dir/profiles/username</codeph>
        folder and select the most recently edited <codeph>.jcs </codeph>file.
        Commit this to SVN by copying it into src/main/profiles/username
        folder, adding it to SVN, and finally commiting to SVN. This requires
        Subversion to be installed. </cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Create a module concept as described in the IHTSDO Documentation.
        This helps identify the origin of particular content within a release.
        e.g. SNOMED CT International content vs national release content. If
        no module is specified, a default value of "Workbench Auxiliary" will
        be used. </cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Check out a copy of the release project from the relevant
        subversion repository<xref href="#exporting_rf2/cfh_svn_site"
        scope="local" type="fn"/>. <fn id="cfh_svn_site">e.g.
        https://csfe.aceworkspace.net/svn/repos/dmd/branches/2009-04-01-trial-1/dev/cfh_refset_release</fn>
        This requires Subversion to be installed. </cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Update the release project's pom to use the module created in
        Currently this is set to a dummy value of "Workbench Auxiliary".
        &lt;execution&gt;</cmd>

        <stepxmp><codeblock>&lt;execution&gt;
   &lt;id&gt;export-refsets&lt;/id&gt;
   &lt;phase&gt;generate-test-resources&lt;/phase&gt;
   &lt;goals&gt;
      &lt;goal&gt;refset-export&lt;/goal&gt;
   &lt;/goals&gt;
   &lt;configuration&gt;
      &lt;useRF2&gt;true&lt;/useRF2&gt;
      &lt;rf2Descriptor&gt;
         &lt;module&gt;
 &lt;!-- TODO update to real module FSN/UUID --&gt;
           &lt;uuid&gt;2faa9260-8fb2-11db-b606-0800200c9a66&lt;/uuid&gt;
           &lt;description&gt;Workbench Auxiliary&lt;/description&gt;
         &lt;/module&gt;
         &lt;namespace&gt;1999999&lt;/namespace&gt; 
         &lt;project&gt;03&lt;/project&gt;
         &lt;contentSubType&gt;National&lt;/contentSubType&gt;
         &lt;countryCode&gt;UK&lt;/countryCode&gt;
      &lt;/rf2Descriptor&gt;
 &lt;!-- TODO update to real release version --&gt;
      &lt;releaseVersion&gt;1&lt;/releaseVersion&gt;
      &lt;uuidRefsetOutputDirectory&gt;
        ${project.build.directory}/classes/rf2_uuid/refsets
      &lt;/uuidRefsetOutputDirectory&gt; ...
   &lt;/configuration&gt;
 &lt;/execution&gt;</codeblock></stepxmp>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Update the releaseVersion in the pom file - this identifies the
        SNOMED CT version the refsets are intended to be used with. It is an
        8-digit number of the form "<codeph>YYYYMMDD</codeph>". </cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Run an install of the release project using "mvn clean install".
        This will check out the latest changesets in the bundle, and export
        any member refsets in RF2. This requires Maven and Java to be
        installed. Ensure that adequate memory is allocated to Maven by
        creating a MAVEN_OPTS environmental variable with the value of
        "<codeph>-Xms700m -Xmx1400m</codeph>".</cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>After the build has completed, change into the
        target/classes/rf2_sctid/refsets directory, and locate the RF2 export
        files. There will be a file for each member refset. Since the current
        member set generation also creates "parent" members in addition to
        "normal" members, these will be included in the export (in their own
        file). The RF2 files can also be located in the project's generated
        JAR file - this can be found in the local Maven repository
        (.m2\repository\net\nhs\uktc\cfh_refset_release\2009.06.01-
        SNAPSHOT\cfh_refset_release-2009.06.01-SNAPSHOT.jar)</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
