<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<dita>

 <topic id="edit_tab" xml:lang="en">
  <title>Edit Tab</title>
  <topic id="defaults">
   <title>Defaults</title>
   <body>
    <section>
     <title>Default status</title>
     <ph>Specifies the initial value of the <i>status</i> field when a new concept is added.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Default image type</title>
     <ph>Specifies the initial value of the <i>status</i> field in the <b>Image</b> section of the
      work area when associating an image with a concept.</ph>
    </section>

    <section>
     <title>Default description type</title>
     <ph>Specifies the initial value of the description that will appear in the type field of the
       <b>Descriptions</b> section of the work area when a new concept is added.</ph>
    </section>

    <section>
     <title>Default relationship type</title>
     <ph>Specifies the initial value in the <i>type</i> field of the <b>Source relationships</b> and
       <b>Destination relationships</b> sections of the work area when a new concept is added.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Default relationship characteristic</title>
     <ph>Specifies the initial value in the <i>char</i> (characteristic) field of the <b>Source
       rela­tionships</b> and <b>Destination relationships</b> sections of the work area when a new
      concept is added.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Default relationship refinability</title>
     <ph>Specifies the initial value in the refinability field of the <b>Source relationships</b>
      and <b>Destination relationships</b> sections of the work area when a new concept is
      added.</ph>
    </section>
   </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="relationship_types">
   <title>Relationship Types (values for popup)</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the values available for the relationship type of a concept. These values specify the
     choices displayed in the type field popup selection boxes in the <b>Source relationships</b>
     and <b>Destination relationships</b> sections of the work area.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="relationship_refinability">
   <title>Relationship Refinability (values for popup)</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the values available for the refinability of a concept. These values specify the
     choices displayed in the refinability field popup selection boxes in the Source relationships
     and Destination relationships sections of the work area.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="relationship_characteristics">
   <title>Relationship Characteristics</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the values available for the characteristics of a concept. These val­ues specify the
     choices displayed in the char (characteristic) field popup selection boxes in the Source
     relationships and Destination relationships sections of the work area.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="description_types">
   <title>Description Types</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the values available for the description type of a concept. These values specify the
     choices displayed in the type field popup selection box in the Descriptions section of the work
     area.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="image_types">
   <title>Image Types</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the values available for a concept’s image type. These values spec­ify the choices
     displayed in the type field popup selection box in the Images section of the work area.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="status_values">
   <title>Status Values</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the values available for the status value of a concept. These values specify the
     choices displayed in the status field popup selection boxes in the Concept attributes, Refset,
     Descriptions, Source relationships, Destina­tion relationships, and Images sections of the work
     area.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>
 </topic>
</dita>
