<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<dita>

 <topic id="view_tab" xml:lang="en">
  <title>View Tab</title>
  <shortdesc>
   <ph>The View tab is used to control the display of items in the taxonomy view pane, how fields
    are displayed in the various sections of the work area</ph>
  </shortdesc>
  <topic id="descriptions">
   <title>Descriptions</title>

   <body>
    <section>
     <title>Short label preference order</title>
     <ph>Specifies how to display the concept name in those areas of the screen that use short
      labels (e.g. the taxonomy pane), based on the concept description type. The first concept
      description whose description type matches one of description types in the list (in descending
      order) will be the one displayed for that concept.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Long label preference order</title>
     <ph>Specifies how to display the concept name in those areas of the screen that use long labels
      (e.g. the concept work area), based on the concept descrip足tion type (e.g. fully specified
      name, preferred term). The first concept description whose description type matches one of
      description types in the list (in descending order) will be the one displayed for that
      concept.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Tree preference order</title>
     <ph>Specifies how to display the concept name in the taxonomy view pane, based on the concept
      description type (e.g. fully specified name, preferred term). The first concept description
      whose description type matches one of description types in the list (in descending order) will
      be the one displayed for that concept.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Table preference order</title>
    </section>
   </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="hierarchy_roots">
   <title>Hierarchy Roots</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines the highest level (root) concepts in the taxonomy. All other con足cepts will be
     children or sub-children of these concepts.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="taxonomy">
   <title>Taxonomy</title>
   <body>
    <section>
     <ph>Display toggles</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <ph>Use inferred rels in taxonomy view</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <ph>Allow variable height taxonomy view</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <ph>Show viewer images in taxonomy view</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <ph>Show refset info in taxonomy view</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <ph>Sort taxonomy using refset</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Parent relationships</title>
     <ph>Defines the relationships used to associated parent concepts with child con足cepts.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Child relationships</title>
     <ph>Defines the relationships used to associated child concepts with parent con足cepts.</ph>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Stated view characteristic types</title>
    </section>
    <section>
     <title>Inferred view characteristic types</title>
    </section>
   </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="taxonomy_sort">
   <title>Taxonomy sort</title>
   <body>
    <p>If the Sort taxonomy using refset is selected on the Taxonomy tab (see previous section),
     defines the refsets that will order the taxonomy display.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="status">
   <title>Status</title>
   <body>
    <p>Defines which concepts will be displayed in the taxonomy view pane based on their value in
     their status field.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="refsets_in_taxonomy">
   <title>Refsets to show in taxonomy view</title>
   <body>
    <p>Specifies the refsets for which concepts in the hierarchy display will show adjacent
     inclusion or exclusion symbols.</p>
   </body>
  </topic>

 </topic>
</dita>
