<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">


<topic id="topic3" xml:lang="en">
 <title>Installation readiness with Install4j</title>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Installation </indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <body>
  <section id="aw1071990">Although the IHTSDO Toolkit is platform independent, built on Sun
   Microsystems Java technologies, there are sufficient variations<fn id="aw1072026">e.g. script
    files, component naming, desktop windowing environments, folder or directory locations,
    etc.</fn><xref href="#topic3/aw1072026" scope="local" type="fn" format="dita"/> in the operating
   systems of end user machines that some tailoring of the installation of IHTSDO Workbench IDEs or
   viewers for common operating systems will most likely be required. The recommended product for
   building an installer is <ph>install4j</ph><fn id="aw1072036">see <xref
     href="http://www.ej-technologies.com" scope="external" format="html">
     <ph>http://www.ej-technologies.com</ph>
    </xref> for product details</fn><xref href="#topic3/aw1072036" scope="local" type="fn"
    format="dita"/>. Install4j has a number of features that are likely to be attractive to
   terminology development organisations, including:-<indexterm>install4j </indexterm></section>
  <p>Native launcher generation</p>
  <section>install4j generates application launchers that are native on every supported platform:
   Windows executables are compiled with exe4j technology; Unix shell scripts are created for Unix
   platforms and application bundles are created for Mac OS X. These launchers offer flexible
   JRE-detection. </section>
  <p>Advanced JRE bundling</p>
  <section>One of the core requirements for a Java-aware installer builder is the ability to bundle
   a JRE with the installer. Install4j supports JRE download-on demand, Pack200 compression or
   shared installations of JRE bundles. Pre-packaged JRE bundles can be downloaded from within the
   install4j IDE. </section>
  <p>Extensive i18n support</p>
  <section>install4j fully supports localizing your installer to multiple languages, offering a
   large number of installer languages. Single- or multi-language installers that detect the actual
   language at runtime can be built. </section>
 </body>
</topic>

