<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">


<topic id="topic1" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Building an application bundle</title>
 <body>
  <section>An IHTSDO Workbench IDE application bundle is a package of components ready for
   installation on an end-user's computer. Such a bundle includes the various software components,
   configuration files, policy files, predefined workflow tasks, a database containing one or more
   versions of SNOMED, and other additional term sets relevant to the terminology modeller's
   functional requirements. A terminology modeller may have several different bundles on his/her
   machine, particularly during a period of rapid functional change. In such cases, it is important
   to differentiate and clarify the functionality provided by each bundle.</section>
  <section id="aw1047511">For building all or part of an IHTSDO Workbench IDE bundle, the software
   development team makes use of Maven, and Maven’s project object model (POM<fn id="aw1057322">see
     <xref href="http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/javabeans/index.html" scope="external"
     format="html">
     <ph>http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/javabeans/index.html</ph>
    </xref></fn><xref href="#topic1/aw1057322" scope="local" type="fn" format="dita"/>) and
    plug-ins<fn id="aw1057343">The POM is the metadata that Maven needs to work with a project. The
    filename is “pom.xml” and is located in the root directory for each project.</fn><xref
    href="#topic1/aw1057343" scope="local" type="fn" format="dita"/>. Plug-ins define Goals<fn
    id="aw1057365">Maven is organized in plug-ins. Every piece of functionality in Maven is
    contained within a plugin.</fn><xref href="#topic1/aw1057365" scope="local" type="fn"
    format="dita"/> and use the metadata found in the POM to perform their task. Maven is driven by
   the POM’s and plug-ins used within the POMS for every Maven project. A typical IHTSDO Workbench
   IDE bundle would comprise a set of Maven subprojects, governed by a master “bundle” project.
    <indexterm>Maven </indexterm><indexterm>Maven </indexterm></section>
  </body>
</topic>

