<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic1" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Business Process Library</title>
 <prolog>
  <author>Eric Browne</author>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>Business Process<indexterm>library</indexterm><indexterm>plugins</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>plugins<indexterm>business process</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>plugins<index-see>process</index-see></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 
 <body>
  <section>The Business Process Library comprises a set of business processes that support the
   terminology development environment of an organisation. Business Processes are constructed using
   the Business Process IDE as described in <xref href="../Workflow/processes_intro.dita#topic1"
    type="topic" format="dita"/>, and saved to the analyst's local disk. Business Processes that are
   to be run by modellers or other end users should normally be incorporated into the IHTSDO
   Workbench IDE distributed to users' machines. Other Business Processes, e.g. those supporting
   administrative activities such as configuring modeller's environment, may not be built into the
   distribution bundle. </section>
  <section>A Business Process (BP) utilises the <b>plugin</b> framework of IHTSDO Workbench and
   could be configured to be invoked through several means, by chosing the appropriate location in
   the IDE bundle folder/directory structure:</section>
  <ul>
   <li>a BP can be invoked using a button in IHTSDO IDE. The button can be attached to one or more
    of a number of panels in IHTSDO IDE.</li>
   <li>a BP can be invoked from the IHTSDO IDE menu.</li>
   <li>a BP can be loaded into the business process editor from the user's filesystem and executed
    therein. This is useful for administrative processes undertaken by analysts, such a configuring
    a particular user's modelling or validating environment.</li>
   <li>a BP could be invoked by the system as a subprocess of a larger Business Process.</li>
   <li>A BP could be invoked by the system as part of an inbuilt system process. For example, the <i
     >precommit</i> and <i>commit</i> folders store business processes that are executed as part of
    the commit action within the IHTSDO IDE.</li>
  </ul>
  <section>The mechanism for BP invocation is controlled in the IHTSDO IDE by the corresponding
   serialised BP object ( a file with extension .bp) built by the Business Process Editor being
   located in an appropriate subfolder of the “plugin” folder in the executable bundle. This chapter
   tries to describe all of the above Business Process types.</section>
  <section>The following pages describe each of the business processes that have already been
   constructed. A BP is generally considered a plug-in if it resides in one of the specialised
   locations in an IHTSDO IDE bundle. These locations then determine how the BP can be invoked.
   Rather then categorising the BPs by their plug-in type, we have chosen below to order the
   processes by their business function category, dealing with change sets, creation processes,
   refset processes, etc. However, the plug-in type is also included in each table. There are also a
   number of business process modules that are loaded and invoked manually by an analyst, usually to
   establish, configure or modify a modeller's editing environment. These BPs are not usually
   considered plug-ins, nor are they usually supplied with the application bundle.</section>
  
 </body>
</topic>
