<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic6" xml:lang="en">
 <title>Bundled Business Process Plugins</title>
 <body>
  <section>The following BPs are undergoing testing and enhancement at the time of
   writing..</section>
  <table id="aq1044599">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="114*"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="220*"/>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry namest="col1" nameend="col2">
       <p><b>Load and Classify</b><indexterm>Process <indexterm>Load and Classify</indexterm>
        </indexterm></p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">
       <p>Description:</p>
      </entry>
      <entry colname="col2">
       <p>Loads and runs the default classifier on a RefSet.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">
       <p>Rationale:</p>
      </entry>
      <entry colname="col2">
       <p>It is important that the SNOMED refset is self-consistent with the SNOMED description
        logic and that it adheres to the specific concept model constraints and rules. Furthermore,
        the inferred view of the refset, denoting the derived relationships inherited from higher
        concepts of a given concept needs to be available during the modelling phase. Satisfying all
        the above requirements is enabled by running an appropriate classifier over the refset. </p>
       <p>This process loads and runs the classifier and can be invoked manually (via button) by a
        modeller, as well as being available for autoprocessing.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">
       <p>Availability in Editor: </p>
      </entry>
      <entry colname="col2">
       <p>Can be invoked through the SnoRocket Button.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry colname="col1">
       <p>Implementation Package: </p>
      </entry>
      <entry colname="col2">
       <p>LoadAndClassify.bp<fn id="aq1057282"><ph>ยง</ph><xref href="http://e-hrc.net"
          scope="external" format="html"> Under extensive development in conjunction with SnoRocket
          Classifier from The Australian E-Health Research Centre. Licensing conditions apply. (
          contact available at </xref><ph>http://e-hrc.net</ph> )</fn><xref href="#topic6/aq1057282"
         scope="local" type="fn" format="dita"/><ph>ยง</ph></p>
      </entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
 </body>
</topic>
