<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.1 Composite//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="ws_intro" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>About the IHTSDO Workspace</title>

  <body>
    <section id="au999325">The IHTSDO Workspace is comprised of three
    CollabNet products: CollabNet SourceForge Enterprise Edition (CSFE),
    CollabNet CUBiT and CollabNet Subversion. These three products all work
    together to provide the robust, secure collaborative platform that is
    required to support terminology development organisations’ members and
    licensees in the collaborative development, advancement, and delivery of
    terminologies such as SNOMED CT worldwide.<indexterm>CollabNet
    </indexterm><indexterm>CSFE </indexterm><indexterm>CUBiT
    </indexterm></section>

    <section>With more than 1.2 million users, CollabNet is the most widely
    used platform for Distributed Software Development. CollabNet transforms
    the way software is being developed by simplifying distributed development
    and enabling organizations to leverage global development talents to
    deliver better products and innovate faster.</section>

    <section>Using the CollabNet platform, worldwide project members that are
    geographically distributed can work as “one team” throughout the lifecycle
    of a project, regardless of their location. Unlike traditional development
    tools, CollabNet supports globally distributed teams in a cost-effective
    way, providing savings through reduced development infrastructure costs,
    increased productivity, improved project visibility and shared access to
    software assets.</section>

    <section>More than 500 companies rely on CollabNet for their distributed
    development, off-shoring, outsourcing and partner co-development
    efforts.</section>

    <section>Founded upon open source principles, <xref format="html"
    href="http://www.open.collab.net" scope="external">CollabNet</xref> is
    also the company behind Subversion, the next-generation Software
    Configuration Management solution. Subversion was named sole leader in
    standalone SCM in the Forrester Wave report for Software Configuration and
    Change Management, Q2, 2007.</section>

    <section>The CollabNet platform reduces development, build and test
    infrastructure costs by enabling central support of geographically
    distributed teams and eliminating the need to replicate or install local
    software asset repositories. Many CollabNet customers have cut their
    development infrastructure costs by up to 50 percent.</section>

    <section>CollabNet products enable collaboration, which improves
    transparency and productivity through project dashboards and integrated
    wiki, forum, mailing list, and document management tools that support
    global search, role-based security, and universal web/e-mail/RSS
    access.</section>

    <section>With CollabNet, development teams become more efficient and
    collaborate more openly. Many CollabNet customers have experienced reduced
    time-to-market, delivered error-free projects ahead of schedule, and
    increased their market leadership.</section>

    <section>In summary, the IHTSDO Workbench workspace will allows
    organisations and their members and licensees to:</section>

    <ul>
      <li>Rapidly gain visibility, traceability and governance across
      terminology development and the tools and processes used to create a
      terminology release</li>

      <li>Unify the terminology development lifecycle tools and processes into
      a common, integrated platform</li>

      <li>Accelerate terminology development and innovation</li>

      <li>Accelerate creation of and distribution of terminology development
      tools and processes</li>

      <li>Provide a common terminology development platform</li>

      <li>Eliminate the time spent configuring servers and reduce costs
      through optimizing servers across a global distributed pool</li>

      <li>Reduce terminology build cycles and increase quality by providing a
      continuous integration and release environment</li>

      <li>Manage costs at each stage with comprehensive rollup reports by
      server, user, and project</li>

      <li>Provide certifiable quality and traceability for governance and
      change management through comprehensive audit logs, dashboards, and
      reporting</li>

      <li>Publish a release</li>
    </ul>

    <section>IHTSDO Workbench provides end-to-end support for distributed
    development and application lifecycle management, and allows integration
    of this end-to-end support directly into Integrated Development
    Environments such as Eclipse.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
